---
title: "Test Driven Refactoring"
layout: post
date: 2016-02-28 22:44
blog: true
star: true
---

# Test Driven Refactoring.
The goal of testing is **determinism** (to know for sure) that your program works. Stubs and Mocks are tools to provide this but using them pulls unwanted implementation detail to a test.
Pure functions are already deterministic and can be tested without relying on implementation details of other objects.

The need for Stubs and Mocks highlight bad design:
[watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EaxDl5NPuCA&index=2&list=PL28BuhTO-x02-zvyu5cGcLOsrYkfauI_c&ab_channel=MelbJVMJavaUsersGroup)

>Stubs are a way poor mans way to make mutable state immutable - to gives a variable one value. They always introduce (unwanted) implementation detail into a test.

Mutable state forces you to care about how collaborators work. Immutable state allows you to ignore colaborators. Less encapsulation.

## clumsy input:
alot of stubs = object too big, complex. Getting values from another object = implementation details baked in, not relevent to test. 
Get rid of stubs by passing values into SUT. (parameterize)

## Unnecessary Mutable State:
Only interested in end-state not implementation details. Remove unneccesary moving parts. 
If state is immutable, SUT isolation is unnecessary 
    -> Interface's query functions provide current state 
    -> command functions just return new copies of state (data)

Test private method? WE have no buisness peeking at a methods tools. We only care about the result. How a method works has nothing to do with the correctness of the thing you are testing.
Pure functions are isolated enough.  Immutable data is deterministic.

Dumb kata: multipling by looping with addition. Stub the addition results, Mock to check addition is called correct number of time. 
            ridiculous - just call multiply with immutable values and assert the return value is correct.
            
## Essential effects:  (replacing mocks)
Things that really are supposed to happen (the point of the application)
Mocks are used to confirm these happen, however the mock doesn't check the side effect has actually happened just that the method was called- testing the intent.
Can replace mock with (testable) intent object that have no effects. eg. Interface sendEmailIntent, separates intent from execution (abstract intent from implementation details) 
Objects that cause effects should never contain logic (effect objects - low level - no decisions). The intent object contains the full instructions of the effect.
Decoupling intent from the effect.

Instead of thinking about 'integration' vs 'units', separating collaborator as boundries, side effects are the ctive ingredient.
Side effects  are the things that make us want to separate the collaborators.
>Functionality composes when side effects are removed. Testing larger units is now simple.

## Mocks break tdd
Mocks allow you to write testable code that does not have separation of concerns. So the goal of tdd - good design (which is hard) is lost by a tool that pulls the rug out from under it. Kata: Try tdd without stubs and mocks to see what happens.

>Stubs: if you need a stub to set a value in a test, refactor the function to take the value as a parameter.

>Mocks: allow you to test the effect of your code without testing the effects, this sometimes mean your testing does not relate to your software. Tests pass when the code is wrong.
A better use for mocks is to test the intent of your code. However you can refactor your code to directly express the intent as a structure. Decouple the expression of the intent with the execution of it.

1. get rid of the side effects not the collaborators
2. avoid 'tell don't ask' i.e performing effects on collaborators
3. static methods and new are also tarred with the side effects brush. They are not bad in themselves.

Immutable types and pure functions ftw.



